# Latest Developments in AI (2023)

## Sparks of Artificial General Intelligence: Early experiments with GPT-4

**Authors:** Sébastien Bubeck, Varun Chandrasekaran, Ronen Eldan, Johannes Gehrke, Eric Horvitz, Ece Kamar, Peter Lee, Yin Tat Lee, Yuanzhi Li, Scott Lundberg, Harsha Nori, Hamid Palangi, Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Yi Zhang

**Abstract:** Artificial intelligence (AI) researchers have been developing and refining large language models (LLMs) that exhibit remarkable capabilities across a variety of domains and tasks, challenging our understanding of learning and cognition. The latest model developed by OpenAI, GPT-4, was trained using an unprecedented scale of compute and data. In this paper, we report on our investigation of an early version of GPT-4, when it was still in active development by OpenAI. We contend that (this early version of) GPT-4 is part of a new cohort of LLMs (along with ChatGPT and Google's PaLM for example) that exhibit more general intelligence than previous AI models. We discuss the rising capabilities and implications of these models. We demonstrate that, beyond its mastery of language, GPT-4 can solve novel and difficult tasks that span mathematics, coding, vision, medicine, law, psychology and more, without needing any special prompting. Moreover, in all of these tasks, GPT-4's performance is strikingly close to human-level performance, and often vastly surpasses prior models such as ChatGPT. Given the breadth and depth of GPT-4's capabilities, we believe that it could reasonably be viewed as an early (yet still incomplete) version of an artificial general intelligence (AGI) system. In our exploration of GPT-4, we put special emphasis on discovering its limitations, and we discuss the challenges ahead for advancing towards deeper and more comprehensive versions of AGI, including the possible need for pursuing a new paradigm that moves beyond next-word prediction. We conclude with reflections on societal influences of the recent technological leap and future research directions.

## Artificial Intelligence and Dual Contract

**Authors:** Wuming Fu and Qian QI

**Abstract:** With the dramatic progress of artificial intelligence algorithms in recent times, it is hoped that algorithms will soon supplant human decision-makers in various fields, such as contract design. We analyze the possible consequences by experimentally studying the behavior of algorithms powered by Artificial Intelligence (Multi-agent Q-learning) in a workhorse dual contract model for dual-principal-agent problems. We find that the AI algorithms autonomously learn to design incentive-compatible contracts without external guidance or communication among themselves. We emphasize that the principal, powered by distinct AI algorithms, can play mixed-sum behavior such as collusion and competition. We find that the more intelligent principals tend to become cooperative, and the less intelligent principals are endogenizing myopia and tend to become competitive. Under the optimal contract, the lower contract incentive to the agent is sustained by collusive strategies between the principals. This finding is robust to principal heterogeneity, changes in the number of players involved in the contract, and various forms of uncertainty.

## AI-Generated 6G Internet Design: A Diffusion Model-based Learning Approach

**Authors:** Yudong Huang

**Abstract:** The 6G Internet poses intense demands for intelligent and customized designs to cope with the surging network scale, dynamically time-varying environments, diverse user requirements, and complicated manual configuration. However, traditional rule-based solutions heavily rely on human efforts and expertise, while data-driven intelligent algorithms still lack interpretability and generalization. In this paper, we propose the AIGI (AI-Generated Internet), a novel intention-driven design paradigm for the 6G Internet, which allows operators to quickly generate a variety of customized network solutions and achieve expert-free problem optimization. Driven by the diffusion model-based learning approach, AIGI has great potential to learn the reward-maximizing trajectories, automatically satisfy multiple constraints, adapt to different objectives and scenarios, or even intelligently create novel designs and mechanisms unseen in existing network environments. Finally, we conduct a use case to demonstrate that AIGI can effectively guide the design of transmit power allocation in digital twin-based 6G networks.

## Ultrafast artificial intelligence: Machine learning with atomic-scale quantum systems

**Authors:** Thomas Pfeifer, Matthias Wollenhaupt, and Manfred Lein

**Abstract:** We train a model atom to recognize hand-written digits in the range 0-9, employing intense light–matter interaction as a computational resource. For training, the images of the digits are converted into shaped laser pulses (data input pulses). Simultaneously with an input pulse, another shaped pulse (program pulse), polarized in the orthogonal direction, is applied to the atom and the system evolves quantum mechanically according to the time-dependent Schrödinger equation. The purpose of the optimal program pulse is to direct the system into specific atomic final states (classification states) that correspond to the input digits. A success rate of about 40% is achieved when using a basic optimization scheme that might be limited by the computational resources for finding the optimal program pulse in a high-dimensional search space. Our key result is the capability of the laser-programmed atom to generalize, i.e., the classification of unseen images is improved by training. This atom-sized machine-learning image-recognition scheme operates on time scales down to tens of femtoseconds, is scalable towards larger (e.g. molecular) systems, and is readily reprogrammable towards other learning/classification tasks.